Now,
let's go ahead and look at using these DMVs and SQL Server Management
Studio to go ahead and troubleshoot our availability groups.
First,
we're going to look at the DMVs that retrieve the status of the
availability group itself and the primary replica.
Next,
we're going to check the DMVs that retrieve the
status for the secondary replicas.
After that,
we're going to run the DMVs that retrieve the status for the
databases that are part of those availability groups.
Then we're going to connect into the availability group with
SQL Server Management Studio, and look at the health status and
other information that it returns.
Now, let's go ahead and see what it looks like to use these
DMVs to query our availability group.
Here is Azure Data Studio, and we have a connection into our primary replica.
So let's open up a query that has first, our availability group query,
and that would be this one. And you can see that it's going to
select the name from the availability group, and then it's going to
inquire about the primary replica status.
So let's go ahead and run it.
And here you can see, we have the one availability group, K8sAG, and then
our primary replica is online, and its state is healthy.
Now let's go ahead, and we're going to query the secondary replicas.
So we'll go ahead and open up our next query,
and this query, we'll go ahead and retrieve the roles in
health for the secondary replicas, in fact,
all the replicas, and then it's going to give us the
configuration information about the endpoints.
So let's go ahead and run that.
And there you can see, we have the three different
replicas, primary and two secondaries.
They're all connected, and at their current state,
they're all healthy. And in the bottom, we can see
the configuration information.
The primary is synchronous, the first secondary is synchronous,
and the second secondary is asynchronous.
Now, let's go ahead and query the actual availability group
database. So we'll open up this query, and this is,
this joins with the sys.databases table, and the sys.availability_replicas to
retrieve the names. Other than that, it is going ahead and retrieving the
synchronization state and health, the last log sequence number, as well as the
redo_queue_size and the log_send_queue_size,
which in this case, is 0, but if those values were high,
you could tell there might be a problem with the replication.
Now, let's flip over, and we're going to look at
using SQL Server Management Studio.
And here's an example of SQL Server Management Studio.
Remember,
SQL Server Management Studio is actually a Windows
application, so we're running this on a Windows server that's
connected into our Kubernetes cluster,
and our Kubernetes cluster is running the SQL Server Linux editions.
So we're managing it with SQL Server Management Studio,
just like we would any SQL Server system.
This is the server dashboard.
You can see we're connected to the mssql‑primary system, and if
we want to get information about our Always On Availability
Groups, we can go ahead and expand our Always On Availability
Groups node in Server Explorer.
And there you can see the availability group that we have, the K8sAG group.
If we go ahead and expand it again, we can look at the replicas
that are out there, and there's our primary and our two secondary
replicas, and our availability database,
which is the DevTestAG database.
If we want to get information about this availability group, we can use the
Show Dashboard report that you can see here, and Show Dashboard gives us an
overview of the health of our availability group.
So at this point, you can see our availability group is healthy.
We can see the different replicas that are out there,
the roles that they have, and the availability modes that they're using, and we can look into the different states that they have.